index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: ThreeTen - Home page and Documentation
subtitle: The ThreeTen project
---

This is the home page of the ThreeTen project, which provides a date and time API for Java.
It originally started as [JSR-310](https://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=310) a formal project within
the Java Community Process.

As well as information about Java SE 8, the project also provides a backport for Java SE 7 and a
jar file of extra classes for Java SE 8.

#### Main project for Java SE 8

The main project completed when Java SE 8 was released.
Ongoing bug fixes for Java SE 8 occur in [OpenJDK JDK 8u](http://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk8u/).
Ongoing active development for Java SE 9 occurs in [OpenJDK JDK 9](http://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk9/).

Source code was [originally located](https://github.com/ThreeTen/threeten) here at GitHub but is now in Mercurial at OpenJDK.
Issues should be logged in the OpenJDK [bug database](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/secure/Dashboard.jspa).
Older issues are still visible at the GItHub [issue tracker](https://github.com/ThreeTen/threeten/issues).

#### Documentation

This site holds [reference documentation](articles/index.html) for ThreeTen and JSR-310.
This supplements the [Javadoc](http://www.threeten.org/threetenbp/apidocs), providing a broader user guide.
The documentation is applicable to both the backport and JDK 1.8 - only the package name changes.

Many [articles and videos](links.html) have been published on the topic of JSR-310.
If you'd like to add another one, please raise a [pull request](https://github.com/ThreeTen/threeten.github.io).

#### Backport for Java SE 7

A [backport](http://www.threeten.org/threetenbp/) has been provided for Java SE 7 hosted here at GitHub.
The aim of the backport is to allow developers on Java SE 7 to access an API that is very similar to the one in Java SE 8.
The backport is NOT an official implementation of JSR-310, as that would involve many complex legal/procedural hoops.

The backport [Javadoc](http://www.threeten.org/threetenbp/apidocs) is available for browsing.
The jar file is available in the [Maven Central repository](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cgav%7C1%7Cg%3A%22org.threeten%22%20AND%20a%3A%22threetenbp%22).

The backport is used in projects such as [OpenGamma](https://github.com/OpenGamma/OG-Platform).

#### Extras

Not every piece of functionality in the domain of date/time ended up in OpenJDK and Java SE 8.
The "extras" have been combined into a new project - [ThreeTen-Extra](http://www.threeten.org/threeten-extra/) - which can be used as an additional date/time jar file on Java SE 8.

#### History

The [old home page](https://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/threeten/index.php?title=Old_home_page) is still up at Sourceforge for the moment.

Commit message:

Add link to Hibernate/JPA wrappers.

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: ThreeTen - Home page and Documentation
subtitle: The ThreeTen project
---

This is the home page of the ThreeTen project, which provides a date and time API for Java.
It originally started as [JSR-310](https://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=310) a formal project within
the Java Community Process.

As well as information about Java SE 8, the project also provides a backport for Java SE 7 and a
jar file of extra classes for Java SE 8.

#### Main project for Java SE 8

The main project completed when Java SE 8 was released.
Ongoing bug fixes for Java SE 8 occur in [OpenJDK JDK 8u](http://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk8u/).
Ongoing active development for Java SE 9 occurs in [OpenJDK JDK 9](http://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk9/).

Source code was [originally located](https://github.com/ThreeTen/threeten) here at GitHub but is now in Mercurial at OpenJDK.
Issues should be logged in the OpenJDK [bug database](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/secure/Dashboard.jspa).
Older issues are still visible at the GItHub [issue tracker](https://github.com/ThreeTen/threeten/issues).

#### Documentation

This site holds [reference documentation](articles/index.html) for ThreeTen and JSR-310.
This supplements the [Javadoc](http://www.threeten.org/threetenbp/apidocs), providing a broader user guide.
The documentation is applicable to both the backport and JDK 1.8 - only the package name changes.

Many [articles and videos](links.html) have been published on the topic of JSR-310.
If you'd like to add another one, please raise a [pull request](https://github.com/ThreeTen/threeten.github.io).

#### Backport for Java SE 7

A [backport](http://www.threeten.org/threetenbp/) has been provided for Java SE 7 hosted here at GitHub.
The aim of the backport is to allow developers on Java SE 7 to access an API that is very similar to the one in Java SE 8.
The backport is NOT an official implementation of JSR-310, as that would involve many complex legal/procedural hoops.

The backport [Javadoc](http://www.threeten.org/threetenbp/apidocs) is available for browsing.
The jar file is available in the [Maven Central repository](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cgav%7C1%7Cg%3A%22org.threeten%22%20AND%20a%3A%22threetenbp%22).

The backport is used in projects such as [OpenGamma](https://github.com/OpenGamma/OG-Platform).

#### Extras

Not every piece of functionality in the domain of date/time ended up in OpenJDK and Java SE 8.
The "extras" have been combined into a new project - [ThreeTen-Extra](http://www.threeten.org/threeten-extra/) - which can be used as an additional date/time jar file on Java SE 8.

To store JSR-310 classes in a database, you may need to use bindings for Hibernate or JPA. Have a look at the [user type](http://jadira.sourceforge.net/usertype-userguide.html) or [threeten-jpa](https://github.com/marschall/threeten-jpa) projects for more info.

#### History

The [old home page](https://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/threeten/index.php?title=Old_home_page) is still up at Sourceforge for the moment.
